Revamp intro page (#264)
syntasso/kratix-docs: docs/main/02-intro.md

---
title: Docs Introduction
description: Introduction to Kratix.
keywords: [kratix documentation]
sidebar_label: Introduction
slug: /
---

:::info
Looking for an **Enterprise solution**? Check out [Syntasso Kratix
Enterprise (SKE)](https://syntasso.io/pricing)

> :::

Reviewer: IMO, this is best suited under the introduction section as its like, "here is what OSS is...want enterprise?"

Author: pending more feedback from rest of CA in slack but I agree!

Author: moved it for now

# Introduction to Kratix

Kratix is an open-source platform framework built by
[Syntasso](https://syntasso.io) to help you create an internal developer

> platform exactly the way your organisation needs it. We believe great platforms
> can't be bought off the shelf, they must be built and tailed to your
> organisations needs. Kratix provides the flexibility, integration, and
> automation needed to build your platform your way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
platform exactly the way your organisation needs it. We believe great platform *components* can be purchased, but experiences can't be bought off the shelf. Platforms must be built and tailed to your
organisations needs. Kratix provides the flexibility, integration, and
automation needed to integrate all of your components while building your platform expereince your way.
```

> Some teams describe Kratix as a platform orchestrator, designed specifically to
> help platform teams deliver more value, faster, safer, and with less overhead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kratix is an example platform orchestrator in the [Thoughtworks Tech Radar](https://www.thoughtworks.com/en-gb/radar/techniques/platform-orchestration) and is designed specifically to
help platform teams deliver more value, faster, safer, and with less overhead.
```

But most specifically, not using "some teams", we should make sure to own the language on this page

## Why Build Your Platform with Kratix?

Kratix addresses critical challenges faced by platform teams, providing clear
benefits:

### 🚀 Go Faster

Developers lose productivity when forced to wait on manual processes or tickets.
Kratix lets you offer everything as-a-service via clear APIs, which can easily
be exposed through developer portals like Backstage. This enables developers to
instantly self-service resources, significantly accelerating software delivery.

### 🔒 Be Safer

Inconsistent application of critical processes creates risks. Kratix helps you
embed essential business rules—such as security, compliance, and
governance—directly into automated workflows, ensuring reliable enforcement
every time.

### ⚙️ Increase Efficiency

Manual management of fragmented infrastructure results in operational overhead.
Kratix simplifies operations by managing platform resources as a unified,
automated fleet, reducing complexity and scaling effortlessly as your
organisation grows.

:::info

> Want to chat to us about how Kratix can help your organisation? [Contact
> us by clicking the "Book a Demo" button on the Syntasso
> website](https://syntasso.io). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Want to get started faster with ready built portal and infrastructure as code integrations and maintain top tier security with secure base images and SBOMs? [Contact
Syntasso about the enterprise offering by clicking the "Book a Demo" button on the Syntasso
website](https://syntasso.io). 
```

Or something about why over and above these points SKE is better...

Author: agreed, commiting as a placeholder for now

:::

## How Kratix Works: Promises

At Kratix's core are **Promises**—contracts between your platform and your
application teams. Each Promise defines exactly what your platform provides
as-a-service and includes:

- **Self-Service APIs**: Clear, frictionless interfaces enabling immediate and
autonomous resource provisioning.
- **Embedded Workflows**: Automated processes embedded directly within each
Promise, ensuring consistent compliance and security.
- **Fleet Management**: Built-in reconciliation ensures resources remain
up-to-date, simplifying management at scale.

:::info
Ready to get started? Follow our [Quick Start](01-quick-start.md) to jump right in.
:::

> ## Example: Self-Service Database Promise

Reviewer: I wonder if this should be a different page? feels like a enough scrolling for one page 💭

Imagine your application development team needs a new database instance to test their application against. Today, this typically plays out in one of two ways, each problematic in its own way:

- **Manual bottlenecks in the Platform (Platform Team Pain):**  
  Developers raise tickets requesting the database, placing a heavy operational burden on the platform team:
  - Platform engineers manually provision cloud infrastructure using Terraform.

>   - Kubernetes administrators deploy and configure databases by hand.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Kubernetes administrators deploy and configure access to these databases by hand
```

  - Documentation and developer portals (like Backstage) must be manually updated.
  
  This manual, repetitive workload creates delays, inconsistent setups, and high operational overhead, negatively impacting the platform team's efficiency.

- **Shadow IT and unmanaged complexity (Developer Pain):**  
  Developers bypass platform delays by provisioning resources themselves, taking on additional operational complexity:
  - Terraform scripts and infrastructure may be incorrectly or insecurely configured.
  - Resources are deployed using outdated, vulnerable, or unapproved images.

>   - Infrastructure quickly becomes inconsistent, insecure, and difficult for developers to maintain effectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Infrastructure quickly becomes inconsistent, insecure, and difficult for developers to maintain effectively.
  - Delays between successful proof of concepts through to production delivery
```
